>> Jen Kramer: So we are gonna be working
with some paintings by Piet Mondrian.
And you may not be familiar with him.
He's a Dutch painter.
He painted these paintings
around the 1930s.
And in the background of these women
here is an example of his painting.
If you can imagine,
those are red, yellow and
blue blocks along with white
blocks with the black borders.
You've probably seen these
patterns somewhere out there.
And then, this is Yves Saint Laurent,
the dress designer in the 60s,
decided to make dresses
based on the paintings.
I just love this picture.
So [LAUGH],
we're gonna actually go ahead and
recreate some of Mondrian's paintings
using CSS grid, cuz why not, right?
Okay, so
I'm gonna do one of these with you and
then you're gonna do one
of these on your own.
So going ahead and open up in chapter
nine,
>> Jen Kramer: Chapter nine and
going ahead and open up the begin folder.
We're gonna open up index.html and
painting.css.
The painting is just in the wrong place.
So, I think the painting is outside
of the beginning and end folder, so
you probably wanna either fix the path or
drag it into that folder.
>> Jen Kramer: Flexbox, sorry.
Okay grid, and
we'll go to the mondrian-painting,
and we'll go to put the painting
into the begin folder.
>> Jen Kramer: And then if you were
to open the HTML here into a browser,
once you've moved that painting image.
So people in the internet apologize or
put the painting picture in
the wrong place for the URL.
Just go ahead and move it into the begin
folder and that will get you started.
So what we've got going on here is,
we have Mondrian's painting here.
And I have gone ahead and labeled
each of these squares with a letter,
okay, so that you have a sense
of what we're trying to do.
And you'll see that in our HTML,
those letters correspond to these divs,
also with letters, all right?
So what we're gonna do is, we are gonna
try to match these two things together.
So I've given you a starting wrapper,
600 by 600 pixels,
I've given you the background image
here and the divs are in place.
I've outlined them in blacks so
that they show up a little bit better and
given them a little bit of a pasty.
So we have a background image with this
divs on top of it, they're real picks so
we can kind of see the painting
behind the divs, so
we can work on lining things up correctly.
Makes sense?
Okay, so here is the next thing
that I'd like for you to do.
>> Jen Kramer: So what we're gonna do
is we're gonna start with, very simply,
let's just get these boxes
sort of in the right shapes.
And what I mean by that is, if we look
at just a, b and c here in the painting.
Let's see if we can get a and
b stacked on top of each other
with a big box of c next to it.
Don't worry about the proportions
at this point, okay.
Don't worry about the a's being skinny and
the c being fatter.
Let's just get two boxes stacked on top
of each other next to a larger box.
All right, make sense?
We're gonna code this together.
So what do I need to do to get
started here with this painting?
What is the first thing
that I should type in?
>> Speaker 2: Display grid.
>> Jen Kramer: Display grid,
and where is that gonna go?
>> Speaker 3: The wrapper.
>> Jen Kramer: On the wrapper, exactly.
>> Jen Kramer: Display grid,
always a good start.
>> Jen Kramer: And if you wanna have
a grid-gap, just sort of as a placeholder,
you can go ahead and
do that for now, grid-gap.
And just set it up for 10 pixels.
That's not the right number ultimately,
but just as a placeholder.
Just go on ahead and
put that in place, okay.
So looking at this painting again,
a, b, and c,
what are the numbers that
I'm gonna need to put in for
grid rows and grid columns for a, b and c?
So I'm gonna let you think about that for
just a moment.
And I'm gonna give you the hint that
the values here are gonna be grid-row and
grid-column.
>> Jen Kramer: We're gonna need
those values for a, b and c.
>> Jen Kramer: And for
all the other ones for that matter.
>> Jen Kramer: But now, we need to
think about what the numbers are.
So what is the best way to start
with that, if we look at this?
How many overall columns and
rows do we have in this painting?
>> Speaker 4: Does it count three?
>> Jen Kramer: The black areas here
are gonna wind up being the grid gap, so
don't count them.
What do you think?
>> Speaker 5: Is it three rows and
three columns?
>> Jen Kramer: Three rows and
three columns.
So we have one row here, that's a, okay?
We have one row here, that's b.
We have a row here, it looks like a d but
then, what happens over here on the side?
f and g, right?
So it's split.
So this is actually like four rows, right?
Four rows, okay?
How many columns do we have?
>> Speaker 4: Three.
>> Jen Kramer: Three, right?
So a b, d is one column, sort of c and
e is the second column, and f,
g with the c at the top of it that's
the third column, make sense?
Okay, so filing that way,
what would our numbers
be then to specify where
a is here in this grid?
What are the numbers that I would type
in for the grid row and grid column for
letter a?
>> Speaker 4: The 1/4 for the row,
and then 1/3 for the column?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
you're saying 1/4 for
the row and 1/3 for the column, okay?
So where are you getting that from?
So for the row, 1/4?
>> Speaker 4: I was just thinking we were
starting the upper left hand corner, so
it would be in the first column,
and also in the first row.
>> Jen Kramer: Correct.
>> Speaker 4: We already know
how many rows and columns we have,
>> Jen Kramer: Right.
>> Speaker 4: So that's where it is.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so a is actually
gonna go from one, which is right here
just over the top of a, right,
to two which is here between a and b.
Three is gonna be here between b and d,
and four will be here after d, make sense?
And then with the columns,
one is over here on the side,
two winds up being here between b and c.
Three winds up here between e and
the f, g pair.
And then,
four is over here on the outside.
Make sense?
Okay, so what would our numbers be
then for letter a, for the column?
>> Speaker 2: One to two.
>> Jen Kramer: One slash two, right?
1/2 and then for the grid column,
what would be here for a?
>> Speaker 2: Same.
>> Jen Kramer: The same, right?
So 1/2, and 1/2, okay.
How about letter b?
>> Speaker 4: Do the same column.
>> Jen Kramer: So same column, right?
So it's still 1/2.
>> Jen Kramer: All right,
but what about the row?
>> Speaker 4: 2/3?
>> Jen Kramer: 2/3, right?
So 2 to 3, okay?
2/3.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, good.
All right, now how about letter c?
>> Jen Kramer: What
about its column value?
>> Speaker 6: Justin in chat saying 2/4.
>> Jen Kramer: 2/4, good job Justin.
So 2 to 3, 3 to 4.
So 2/4 would be the column value.
>> Jen Kramer: Oops, 2/4.
And the row for c?
>> Speaker 4: 1 to 3, 1/3.
>> Jen Kramer: So from 1 to 2,
2 to 3, right, so 1/3 for the row.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, [COUGH] so
if we just go on ahead and
take a look at our layout so
far, we get this.
>> Jen Kramer: Who's a little weirded out?
>> Jen Kramer: Nobody a little
weirded out by that result?
>> Jen Kramer: Anyone have any
idea what's going on here?
>> Speaker 5: I just have a question.
>> Jen Kramer: Sure.
>> Speaker 5: Why is c for the grid row,
why isn't it 2/3 for the grid row?
>> Jen Kramer: For the grid row?
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Jen Kramer: Because it start here one.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: It goes to two,
two will be somewhere here, right?
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: And then from here, 2 to 3.
>> Speaker 5: Okay, all right.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay.
>> Speaker 5: Thank you.
>> Jen Kramer: Cool yep, okay so,
here's what's going on here with grid.
Grid is very, very smart and it tries to
anticipate what you're trying to do, okay?
So grid knows based on the numbers
that you've typed in that
there are three columns in existence here,
okay?
So it knows that,
this is called the implicit grid.
So it is very helpfully constructed
three columns on this, all right?
It knows that there are at
least two rows in existence
because we have a and
b in those rows, okay?
But grid also knows that we have boxes d,
e,
f and g, and we haven't said where
those are going to be placed yet.
So grid is going to be very smart and
say, you must want three columns and
you want some more rows.
And I'm just gonna make more rows
that are three columns each and
put something in each one of those
columns until I run out of stuff, okay?
So that's called the implicit grid.
By implying what we're looking for
with our first three values here,
grid is continuing to construct the layout
going down the page, all right?
So that's where those things
are gonna be by default.
That's probably not where we want them.
We're going to need to get more explicit
about where we want d, e and f to go.
Make sense?
Okay, and for those of you who
are bothered by the fact that a, b and
c don't line up perfectly,
that's totally okay.
The shape is good.
We're gonna get to exactly how those
are gonna line up perfectly, momentarily.